A preflight test is performed
upon power application to the computer. This test is a sequence of
internal checks that validate proper
system operation prior to allowing
autopilot engagement. The preflight
test (PFT) sequence is indicated by
“PFT” with an increasing number for
the sequence steps. Successful
completion of self test is identified by
all display segments being illuminated (Display Test) and the disconnect tone sounding.


Following the preflight test,
the red P warning on the face of the
autopilot may illuminate indicating
that the pitch axis cannot be
engaged. This condition should be
temporary, lasting no more than 30
seconds. The P will extinguish and
normal operation will be available.



1. PITCH AXIS, (P) ANNUNCIATOR
- When illuminated, indicates failure
of the pitch axis and will disengage
the autopilot when the failure occurs
and not allow engagement of the
pitch axis.
2. AUTOPILOT ENGAGE/DISENGAGE (AP) BUTTON - When
pushed, engages autopilot if all logic
conditions are met. The autopilot will
engage in the basic roll (ROL) mode
which functions as a wing leveler
and in the vertical speed (VS) hold
mode. The commanded vertical
speed is be displayed in the upper
right corner of autopilot display area
for three seconds after engagement
or if either the UP or DN button is
pressed. The captured VS will be the
vertical speed present at the
moment of AP button press. When
pressed again, will disengage the
autopilot. For software version 03/01
and later, the AP button must be
pressed and held for 0.25 seconds
to engage the autopilot.
3. ROLL AXIS (R) ANNUNCIATOR
- When illuminated, indicates failure
of the roll axis and will disengage the
autopilot and not allow engagement.
4. HEADING (HDG) MODE SELECTOR BUTTON - When pushed, will
arm the Heading mode, which commands the airplane to turn to and
maintain the heading selected by the
heading bug on either the DG or
HSI. A new heading may be
selected at any time and will result in
the airplane turning to the new heading. Button can also be used to toggle between HDG and ROL modes.
This button will engage the autopilot
in units with software prior to software version 03/01.

5. NAVIGATION (NAV) MODE
SELECTOR BUTTON - When
pushed, will arm the navigation
mode. The mode provides automatic
beam capture and tracking of VOR,
LOC or GPS as selected for presentation on the HSI or CDI. NAV mode
is recommended for enroute navigation tracking. NAV mode may also
be used for front course LOC tracking when GS tracking is not desired.
6. APPROACH (APR) MODE
SELECTOR BUTTON - When
pushed, will arm the Approach
mode. This mode provides automatic beam capture and tracking of
VOR, GPS, LOC, and Glideslope
(GS) on an ILS, as selected for presentation on the HSI or CDI. APR
mode is recommended for instrument approaches.
7. BACK COURSE APPROACH
(REV) MODE SELECTOR BUTTON
- When pushed, will arm the Back
Course approach mode. This mode
functions similarly to the approach
mode except that the autopilot
response to LOC signals is
reversed, and GS is disabled.
8. ALTITUDE HOLD (ALT) MODE
SELECT BUTTON - When pushed,
will select the Altitude Hold mode.
This mode provides tracking of the
reference altitude. The reference altitude is the altitude at the moment
the ALT button is pressed. If the ALT
button is pressed with an established
VS rate present, there will be altitude
overshoot (approximately 10% of the
VS rate), with the airplane returned
positively to the reference altitude.
This button will engage the autopilot
in units with software prior to software version 03/01.
9. VERTICAL TRIM (UP/DN) BUTTONS - The action of these buttons
is dependent upon the vertical mode
present when pressed. If VS mode is
active, the initial button stroke will
bring up the commanded vertical
speed in the display. Subsequent
immediate button strokes will increment the vertical speed commanded
either up or down at the rate of 100
ft/min per button press, or at the rate
of approximately 300 ft/min per second if held continuously. If ALT
mode is active, incremental button
strokes will move the altitude hold
reference altitude either up or down
at 20 feet per press, or if held continuously will command the airplane up
or down at the rate of 500 ft/min,
synchronizing the altitude hold reference to the actual airplane altitude
upon button release.
(Note that the altitude hold reference
is not displayed. The display will
continue to show the altitude alerter
reference.)
10. ROTARY KNOBS - Used to set
the altitude alerter reference altitude;
or may be used immediately after
pressing the BARO button, to adjust
the autopilot baro setting to match
that of the airplane’s altimeter when
manual adjustment is required. (In
some installations the baro setting is
automatically synced to that of the
altimeter.)
11. BARO SET (BARO) BUTTON -
When pushed and released, will
change the display from the altitude
alerter selected altitude to the baro
setting display (either IN HG or HPA)
for 3 seconds. If pushed and held for
2 seconds, will change the baro setting display from IN HG to HPA or
vice versa. Once the baro setting
display is visible the rotary knobs
may be used to manually adjust the
baro setting if automatic baro correction is not available.
12. ALTITUDE ARM (ARM) BUTTON - When pushed will toggle altitude arming on or off. When ALT
ARM is annunciated, the autopilot
will capture the altitude alerter displayed altitude (provided the aircraft
is climbing or descending in VS to
the displayed altitude). When the
autopilot is engaged, ALT arming is
automatic upon altitude alerter altitude selection via the rotary knobs.
Note that the alerter functions are
independent of the arming process
thus providing full time alerting, even
when the autopilot is disengaged.
13. ALTITUDE ALERTER/VERTICAL SPEED/BARO SETTING DISPLAY - Normally displays the altitude alerter selected altitude. If the
UP or DN button is pushed while in
VS hold, the display changes to the
command reference for the VS
mode in FPM for 3 seconds. If the
BARO button is pushed, the display
changes to the autopilot baro setting
in either IN HG or HPA for 3 seconds.
NOTE: This display may be dashed
for up to 3 minutes on start up if a
blind encoder is installed which
requires a warm up period.
14. ALTITUDE ALERT (ALERT)
ANNUNCIATION - The ALERT
annunciate is illuminated 1000 ft.
prior to the selected altitude, extinguishes 200 ft. prior to the selected
altitude and illuminates momentarily
when the selected altitude is
reached. Once the selected altitude
is reached a flashing ALERT illumination signifies that the 200 ft. “safe
band” has been exceeded and will
remain illuminated until 1000 ft. from
the selected altitude. Associated with
the visual alerting is an aural alert (5
short tones) which occurs 1000 feet
from the selected altitude upon
approaching the altitude and 200
feet from the selected altitude on
leaving the altitude.
15. PITCH TRIM (PT) ANNUNCIATION - A flashing PT with arrows
indicates the direction of required
pitch trim. A solid PT without an
arrow head is an indication of a pitch
trim fault. During manual electric trim
operation (autopilot disengaged),
detection of a stuck MET switch will
be indicated by a solid PT. When the
fault is corrected, the annunciation
will extinguish.
16. PITCH MODE DISPLAY -
Displays the active and armed pitch
modes (VS, ALT, ARM, ALT and
GS).
17. ROLL MODE DISPLAY -
Displays the active and armed roll
modes (ROL, HDG, NAV ARM,
NAV, APR ARM, APR, REV ARM,
REV, GS ARM). Also displayed will
be flashing AP annunciation (5 seconds) at each autopilot disconnect
accompanied by an aural tone (for 2
seconds).
18. AUTOPILOT ENGAGED (AP)
ANNUNCIATION - Illuminates whenever the autopilot is engaged.
Flashes during pilot initiated or automatic disengagement. Only applicable for software versions 03/01 or
later.






Note: VS command value will be displayed during Control Wheel
Steering (CWS) and for three seconds following VS engagement or
pressing the UP or DN button. Both
altitude and vertical speed utilize the
same display area. Altitude is always
displayed except during vertical
speed selection. If the VS command
value is not displayed, pressing (and
releasing) the UP or DN button will
not change the indicated altitude reference but will display the VS command value.



BARO setting - CHECK.
depressing the BARO button will
display the baro setting for three
seconds.
Upon successful completion of preflight test, the baro display will flash.
1. BARO setting - Enter barometric setting using the rotary knobs
OR if correct as displayed, press
BARO.


Baro unit conversion
The barometric pressure display can
toggled between IN HG and HPA as
needed by the pilot.
1. BARO button - Press and hold
for two seconds.



Note: The ALERT annunciation is
illuminated 1000 ft. prior to the
selected altitude, extinguishes 200 ft.
prior to the selected altitude and illuminates momentarily when the
selected altitude is reached. Once
the selected altitude is reached, a
flashing ALERT illumination signifies
that the 200 ft. “safe band” has been
exceeded and will remain illuminated
until 1000 ft. from the selected altitude. 





